subgraphs/compound-forks/protocols/bastion-protocol/README.md, before:

# Bastion Protocol Subgraph

## Calculation Methodology v1.0.0

### Total Value Locked (TVL) USD

Sum across all Pools:

`Pool Deposit TVL`

### Total Revenue USD

Sum across all Pools:

`(Pool Borrow Amount * Pool Borrow Rate)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Protocol-Side Revenue USD

Portion of the Total Revenue allocated to the Protocol

Sum across all Pools:

`(Pool Oustanding Borrow Amount * Pool Borrow Rate) * (Pool Reserve Factor)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Supply-Side Revenue USD

Portion of the Total Revenue allocated to the Supply-Side

Sum across all Pools

`(Pool Outstanding Borrows * Pool Borrow Rate) * (1 - Pool Reserve Factor)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Total Unique Users

Count of Unique Addresses which have interacted with the protocol via any transaction

`Deposits`

`Withdrawals`

`Borrows`

`Liquidations`

`Repayments`

### Reward Token Emissions Amount

Amount of reward tokens (BSTN / wNEAR) distributed each day in a given market.

`rewardsPerSecond * 60 * 60 * 24`

### Protocol Controlled Value

Not applicable to Compound v2

### Outlier Events

- Bastion Protocol's USDT price oracle was artificially high for a period of two minutes resulting in a lot of liquidations. Our subgraph captures this behavior, but please note that the prices seem inflated due to the price oracle. We are not overriding the price it is returning.
  - Bastion's statement: https://bastionprotocol.medium.com/usdt-liquidation-incident-report-a33af2ab1de2

### Notes

- Bastion Protocol token is not a typical ERC20 contract format, so we must manually code in the token metadata for BSTN.
- Rewards are returned in rewards/second on the contract-level.

## Reference and Useful Links

Protocol: https://app.bastionprotocol.com/

Docs: https://bastionprotocol.gitbook.io/official/

Smart contracts: On chain

Deployed addresses: https://bastionprotocol.gitbook.io/official/technicals/contract-addresses

Commit message:

docs(); bastion; update bastion notes (#1240)

subgraphs/compound-forks/protocols/bastion-protocol/README.md, after:

# Bastion Protocol Subgraph

## Calculation Methodology v1.0.0

### Total Value Locked (TVL) USD

Sum across all Pools:

`Pool Deposit TVL`

### Total Revenue USD

Sum across all Pools:

`(Pool Borrow Amount * Pool Borrow Rate)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Protocol-Side Revenue USD

Portion of the Total Revenue allocated to the Protocol

Sum across all Pools:

`(Pool Oustanding Borrow Amount * Pool Borrow Rate) * (Pool Reserve Factor)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Supply-Side Revenue USD

Portion of the Total Revenue allocated to the Supply-Side

Sum across all Pools

`(Pool Outstanding Borrows * Pool Borrow Rate) * (1 - Pool Reserve Factor)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Total Unique Users

Count of Unique Addresses which have interacted with the protocol via any transaction

`Deposits`

`Withdrawals`

`Borrows`

`Liquidations`

`Repayments`

### Reward Token Emissions Amount

Amount of reward tokens (BSTN / wNEAR) distributed each day in a given market.

`rewardsPerSecond * 60 * 60 * 24`

### Protocol Controlled Value

Not applicable to Compound v2

### Outlier Events

- Bastion Protocol's USDT price oracle was artificially high for a period of two minutes resulting in a lot of liquidations. Our subgraph captures this behavior, but please note that the prices seem inflated due to the price oracle. We are not overriding the price it is returning.
  - Bastion's statement: https://bastionprotocol.medium.com/usdt-liquidation-incident-report-a33af2ab1de2

### Notes

- Bastion Protocol token is not a typical ERC20 contract format, so we must manually code in the token metadata for BSTN.
- Rewards are returned in rewards/second on the contract-level.
- Bastion (likely the aurora RPC) is missing some transactions. This does not affect the TVL, borrows, or prices at all. This will affect some of the volume, usage, and transaction metrics. However it is small.
  - This is a slow moving issue, so we think it is best to show move this to prod and then fix once we get traction on the issue.
  - This was noticed since the liquidation volume was underreported for the day bastion had an outlier event.
  - You can view more details about the issues described here: https://github.com/messari/subgraphs/issues/492

## Reference and Useful Links

Protocol: https://app.bastionprotocol.com/

Docs: https://bastionprotocol.gitbook.io/official/

Smart contracts: On chain

Deployed addresses: https://bastionprotocol.gitbook.io/official/technicals/contract-addresses
