subgraphs/compound-v2/README.md, before:

# Compound v2 Subgraph

## Calculation Methodology v1.0.0

### Total Value Locked (TVL) USD

Sum across all Pools: 

`Pool Deposit TVL`

### Total Revenue USD

Sum across all Pools:

`(Pool Borrow Amount * Pool Borrow Rate)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Protocol-Side Revenue USD
Portion of the Total Revenue allocated to the Protocol

Sum across all Pools:

`(Pool Oustanding Borrow Amount * Pool Borrow Rate) * (Pool Reserve Factor)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Supply-Side Revenue USD
Portion of the Total Revenue allocated to the Supply-Side

Sum across all Pools

`(Pool Outstanding Borrows * Pool Borrow Rate) * (1 - Pool Reserve Factor)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Total Unique Users

Count of  Unique Addresses which have interacted with the protocol via any transaction

`Deposits`

`Withdrawals`

`Borrows`

`Liquidations`

`Repayments`

###  Reward Token Emissions Amount

To be added

###  Protocol Controlled Value

Not applicable to Compound v2

### Existing Subgraph for Reference

https://thegraph.com/hosted-service/subgraph/graphprotocol/compound-v2
https://github.com/graphprotocol/compound-V2-subgraph

Commit message:

add compound-v2 (#37)
* add readme and lending schema

* trying out deposit entity with transfer event

* working on deposit entity to start

* add alternate placement for gen files

* add resources

* setup yaml for Event types - need every cToken

* added to address consts and update manifest

* added constants/addrs/mappings

* add more onto depsit mapping

* add Protocol and begin finding price using PriceOracle

* add getPrice usd

* Fix priceoracle manifest

* added liquidate, repay, borrow, withdraw mappings

* clean up code and create market/token mapping

* fix bugs

* converted to dataSource template

* fix codegen bugs

* add market/token creation

* bug in borrow function

* fix sync bug and pull/update schema changes

* format code and price oracle working

* fix ether token creation / dynamic usdc calc

* refactored to standards created more helpers

* setup for snapshot calcs

* setup for metric calcs

* making notes

* eth market name error - refactor - metric

* mapped liquidation stats

* token supply and tvl updates

* refactor and add in better price calcs

* fixed price calcs and update all market vars done

* fix small bugs add helper elements to schema

* update README

* add new helper var

* cleaned/refactored code added reward stuffs

* remove unnecessary param

* new branch

* add MIT license

* refactor / update fees calc

* add testing queries

* speed up syncing

* update initial market reserve factor and liquidation penalty

* fix liquidation penalty

* fix README

* fix schema and manifest

* fix revenue calculations

* fix skipped block issue

* fix revenue calcs - borrowrate per block

* fixed reviewed mistakes

* update versuon and format

* add in new schema / accrue interest properly

* fix totalDepositUSD

* create new constant

* update TVL frequency / fix canUseAsCollateral

* update README

* remove TODO

subgraphs/compound-v2/README.md, after:

# Compound v2 Subgraph

## Calculation Methodology v1.0.0

### Total Value Locked (TVL) USD

Sum across all Pools:

`Pool Deposit TVL`

### Total Revenue USD

Sum across all Pools:

`(Pool Borrow Amount * Pool Borrow Rate)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Protocol-Side Revenue USD

Portion of the Total Revenue allocated to the Protocol

Sum across all Pools:

`(Pool Oustanding Borrow Amount * Pool Borrow Rate) * (Pool Reserve Factor)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Supply-Side Revenue USD

Portion of the Total Revenue allocated to the Supply-Side

Sum across all Pools

`(Pool Outstanding Borrows * Pool Borrow Rate) * (1 - Pool Reserve Factor)`

Note: This currently excludes Liquidations

### Total Unique Users

Count of Unique Addresses which have interacted with the protocol via any transaction

`Deposits`

`Withdrawals`

`Borrows`

`Liquidations`

`Repayments`

### Reward Token Emissions Amount

Amount of reward tokens (COMP) distributed each day.

Following calculation gives the COMP distributed (in COMP) to suppliers OR borrowers

`COMP per block * 4 * 60 * 24`

### Protocol Controlled Value

Not applicable to Compound v2

## Reference and Useful Links

Protocol: https://compound.finance/

Docs: https://compound.finance/docs

Smart contracts: https://github.com/compound-finance/compound-protocol

Deployed addresses: https://compound.finance/docs#networks

Existing subgraphs: https://github.com/graphprotocol/compound-v2-subgraph

Existing Subgraph in Studio: https://thegraph.com/hosted-service/subgraph/graphprotocol/compound-v2

Explanation of lending metrics: https://docs.aave.com/risk/asset-risk/risk-parameters

Dune Dashboard for Testing: https://dune.xyz/messari/Messari:-Compound-Macro-Financial-Statements
